In this video we're going to be adding our levels of visual breakage on our block so that as the block
gets more broken walk.
I still can't play my game very well.
So these ones down the bottom here have different levels of breakage on them so we'll just play that
different Sprite as it gets more damaged.
Again the last lecture we give ourselves some levels of damage on our blocks but there's a problem.
And let's talk about our current problem.
You know what is problem solution once we know our problem we can think about how to fix it and what
to work on next.
So the player carolee has no affordance I'll get to that word in a moment on how damaged a block is.
In other words we can't see it change at all.
So what is affordance what affordance is a term coined by a perceptual psychologist James Gibson came
up with this word of affordance basically affordance provides a strong clue to the operation of things.
In our case visual clues to tell the player how something works.
So you hear us talking about that quite a bit when we're working on our game.
What's the affordance how are we telling the player that something is going to happen or something has
happened.
So the player knows what's going on based upon what they see in our case what we're going to do is show
different levels of damage.
And I'm looking for my sprite's here this is from the Sprite pack that you downloaded at the start of
this section unless of course you pirated the course in which case you might not have these assets and
you can get out your crayon and draw directly onto your monitor.
That is if you pirated the course.
Otherwise there's an American Union there.
Otherwise you will have these levels of damage so level broken one and broken through.
So going to using those to show the player some progression.
Let's jump over into our block.
See script first of all at the very top what we need to do is to create an array.
We've done this before so it should be recognizable to Will serialise field and this array of types.
Right.
The sprite's we're just wing in America an open Anglo's square brackets.
What shall we call this.
I think we should call this hit sprite's to show that they are the hits bracts.
Okay.
So we've created an array.
Next we need to find a place that we want to be showing the different Sprite or the different debt limit
debt limit them or what's a limited number delage level to the player a bit tongue tied today in this
lecture.
What's gone on with me.
Okay so let's have a look.
Where is the place that we are breaking our blocks or a handle here.
This is the place where we say if it's breakable than handle the hit within handle here we're saying
do some things if it's times hit is growing the max then destroy block.
Okay.
What if we're not ready to destroy the block yet.
Well at this point we can say else.
So we're destroying the block or we're doing something else Same else.
New line open and close out curly braces I say else.
Show you next hit sprite's hit sprite.
I think we'll say shaikhs It's bright.
And because it's a method we need out having close parentheses semicolon red squiggly line because this
doesn't exist yet.
Going to right click on shown exits fried's quick actions and three factors and then I have an option
to generate this as a method.
You can see just down below We've got show next hit sprite's Well the highlight out the fault code in
here just delete that so it's Show next hits right.
What does that mean.
What do we want to do at this point in time.
Well first of all we need to have a way of getting in and changing the Sprite.
We click on the game objectively click on our blog we can see that and wrasse bright renderer where
we're showing our Sprite is right here under material.
Sorry.
Under a sprite block square.
So Sprite renderer dot Sprite is where we're displaying what the Sprite looks like so we want to be
changing this in our code.
When the ball hits the block we want to say instead of this thing we want to show a different thing.
What's the different thing we want to show.
Well that's going to depend upon our array.
The array that we create at the top is because the array could take in one or two or three different
levels of hits.
Right.
So it's going to depend where we are without a race.
Let me scroll back down a show next hit Sprite and I will say in here I'll type in here get component.
Open and close.
Our angle bracers we're looking for these Sprite renderer Sprite renderer get components bright renderer
open and close parentheses because it's a method and we're just having a look.
Dot Sprite.
That's the field we're looking to change equals what's going to equal on here.
Well first of all say heat sprite's that's the array that we've created and what level are we at if
we say just level the zero.
Then there will be the very first entry in our array we'll close that day.
Now that's okay but it's only ever going to show the first level in the array the first array entry
it finds we don't have to go and say well nowadays are one now to two we want there to be a little bit
dynamic so it's a variable in here which we will call Sprite index in the Sprite index is something
that we can update and a bar-lev GET component we will declare what the Sprite index is so this is going
to be an int Sprite index equals What's it going to equal.
Well we know that the ball is bouncing So we know the number of times that we have hit the block.
So I'd say times hit but we can't say just times hit because the arrays starts at zero remember so any
array that we have starts at zero.
The very first entry point will be zero and the next one will be one and so on.
So I will say times here at minus 1 semicolon.
So if the ball has gone bounce into our block once then the times hit will be one.
Therefore we want to show the first entry in the array which will be zero.
So we want this value to end up being zero on the first time something's hit.
So that what is being passed into our hits Brites variable is the value of zero.
Okay hopefully that makes sense in a save these and before we get into our back into the engine and
see if it works only gets you to do the next step as a challenge and the challenge is going to be to
create two new prefabs using the curry that we've created.
This all should work nicely.
The first prefab is a two hit block which has just the one damaged levels in other words we start off
with the default no damage and we go bonk into it once and we show the first damage level and then bonk
into it a second time and it destroys and the other prefab will be a three hit block that has the two
damage levels.
So a sign the damage sprite's to your prefabs and test that and see how it goes and all should be great.
So you've let your best shot and I'll see you back here in a moment.
Case we've got our code jump back over into unity.
I will be in my prefabs folder prefabs folder find breakable block old duplicate that once changed the
name to let's see.
One hit breakable breakable and then without one hit breakable you can see now unhit sprite's So under
our script in our inspector we have size and you see undersize if I change this to one that means we're
going to have our one hit Sprite size is now one.
And it's looking for accidently close it looking for what is the element element zero.
So click on our selector find broken block and it's a little bit counterintuitive here because if it's
only one hit then we want to go to the most broken level from an affordance point of view we want to
say that you only have to do one more hit.
This thing's going to be broken to bits.
It's going to be destroyed so we'll select that they're broken block broken to when its size one and
then let us instantiate one of these into the scene.
Dropit just there test this to see if it works before we go any further.
Click on play.
And I can already think of one problem that means this won't work.
And when I hit it's destroyed straightaway Why is that.
So I click on my block the max hits zero will put this up to two to the maximum and it's hit once and
that's okay.
It's the second time remember greater or equal then and on the second hit is when we want it to exploit
it or put it to our hits brides.
We have one size element in that when we click on Play this should all work nice and neatly.
Let's test it out.
We hit it once it damages and then if I can get it the second time yes and then it gets destroyed.
OK.
You might start to be seeing a rate index out of range issues that's something we're going to fix in
an upcoming lecture.
So for now it's a little bit naughty but we're going to ignore that.
You should always pounce on the warnings as soon as you find them by time.
I know about that one.
That's no we're going to fix that very shortly.
But what we've done I've created my first one level break will block I'm going to change the colour
of that just so it's super clear that it is orange colour.
So I know it will be different and then duplicate.
This will be my two hit sorry every name this incorrectly I have an eye.
This should be.
This first one should be the guy who hit because we hit at once.
That's okay.
We did the second time it breaks.
This one I'm creating now should be my third my threet breakable will change the colour of the three
breakable so it's very obvious.
Okay good.
Now we have that as the red colour dropped into the scene.
I need to on the prefab needed change the maximum hits from It's currently 0 I need to change that up
to three maximum hits and the size or change to 2.
It's going to look for another element and it automatically populate that populates with elements that
we had in there already.
I'm going to change my element while 1 hour my elmina's ZERO The very first point on the array to the
first step of brokenness.
So ellman's has broken block one element one is broken what to generally whatever's the last element.
Sorry Almont one in this case the highest is going to have my last level of damage we will see if the
raid works.
Click on Play.
So it's of a race size to one level of damage that looks pretty good.
I'm crunching in.
Let's see if we can do this a little bit more neatly.
One and Two.
You're not to.
Here's a tip for you to make this go a little bit easier.
Click on my block.
Change the size of it by just scaling it very wide across the screen.
It looks ugly but this is for testing purposes.
So it's all good and click once broken.
Still can't play the game.
I didn't make that paddle massive don't I.
That's probably what I do.
See what I should do so your not having to sit there watching me.
I'll get there we go.
So that definitely did have the right number of levels and then definitely did destroy Ms any undo on
that so it's not so huge.
And remember just because we've got our prefab colour as yellow red and orange doesn't mean that we
have to have that in the game.
I can now go into my instance and change the colour on that so it could be whatever colour if I was
to make this say a bluey colour.
Then when we play that colour is going to be put over the top of any of the levels of Sprite and see
the Sprite damage levels that appear so I'm using that generic in my sobriety using these generic colour
shape sprites and our tint from ASP bright render renderer is going to be put over the top of that.
Okay great work we've got a couple of issues and a little bit of cleaning up to do but now we can show
the player that have fallen so they can see just how damaged a block is.
Well done and I'll see in the next lecture.